# AAI139 Simon Bowen

Ronsley Vaz: [00:00:00] with communication, I feel like it's such a, topic that is not talked about, even though there's so much of information available, so many people doing podcasts, so many people putting out content on a regular basis.

But yesterday I drew a model, well I drew a, a sketch of how I wanted a YouTube thumbnail to look like, I dunno whether you saw that post, but I drew a sketch and I said, here, I want the subject and here I want the content. I want you to make sure that the subject is highlighted and put a relevant background.

I just drew it on the iPad, put that in, and I took a picture of myself and I said, here's the topic and the thumbnail. If you have a look on, on Facebook. I just, I, I shared that yesterday. It's absolutely insane. And it's crazy 'cause you just mentioned how it understands models better. So what we thought was not possible.

When AI came along, we thought all the creative work would be the last to go. Somehow all the creative work is the [00:01:00] first to go. And when you are talking about these depth of thinking to be able to, to explain to someone, Hey, this is where you could feel safe. I feel like that is something that is not explored.

I feel that is lacking in communication. 'cause we are all going after a template or to your point, pressure or, or lack of scarce or scarcity to sell rather than, Hey, you are a intelligent human being. You've, you know, started a business. And in my case, the clients that we have are very, they, they care about delivery more than they care about attract and convert.

So they're not really good at attract and convert. they're good at delivery and they kind of, you know, a, a founder is either good at one. One of the three. Very rarely are they good at two of the three. So they have to learn the other two. And they go, oh, I'm the best kept secret in my industry.

And that's primarily because like myself was complicating the communication. 'cause I'm like, Hey, you gotta know all these things that I [00:02:00] know, but you don't need to know all the things that I know. So how do you draw that boundary? Like I'm, I'm sure you have a way to explain that in a, sensible way to sort of communicate.

You don't have to know all these things. You just have to know this so you can feel safe and you can win.

Simon Bowen: Yeah. So I often use this framing of out think outsell, OutServe. Out think outsell OutServe, it sounds like the TV show survivor, right?

Ronsley Vaz: Mm-hmm.

Simon Bowen: But. Out think the marketplace. What does that actually mean?

you need to be able to demonstrate to the market that you get it, better than anybody else. You get them better than anybody else, and you've got them better than any anybody else. You've got their back. They're gonna be safer with you than they will than anyone else. I coined this term buyer safety.

It's the five key levels of buyer safety. If you build your marketing funnel with buyer safety in mind, every step of the marketing process should make that prospect feel [00:03:00] safer with you than without you. So the safest thing for them to do is actually have a conversation with you. Most marketing funnels are making the prospect feel less safe every step of the way.

Ronsley Vaz: But

Simon Bowen: when you create true safety. The safest thing for them to do is have a conversation with you. When you get it, they get a sense, you've got more knowledge about this topic than anyone else. You get them, you really actually understand them and their world, and you've got their back. You've got them, and so we've gotta separate message from mechanics, right?

And so much of the confusion is created by the mechanics. And so you've gotta run the funnels. You've gotta, you know, you've you've gotta have click through and you've gotta have all this stuff set up and all this tech connect and the mechanics, right? And people will get so enamored with the mechanics

Ronsley Vaz: that

Simon Bowen: not enough emphasis is placed on the simplicity of the message.

What makes a message work is, so when Einstein started working out the general theory of relativity,

Ronsley Vaz: he

Simon Bowen: had [00:04:00] four blackboards of formula, and then he simplified it to e equals mc squared. And then he told the world about it. And it became the underlying basis of physics, right? The general theory of relativity.

But he spent years simplifying the message. And so we complicate the mechanics and we let that complication bleed into the message. And so we start to complicate the message, right? So we need to outthink the marketplace. And generally that's through simplification. The greatest form of sophistication that exists is actually simplification.

And there's a world of difference between dumbing down versus simplifying. Do not treat your market as stupid. Don't dumb down, simplify, and, you know, stop treating your market as victims and start treating them as heroes in their own journey. this is the interesting If you treat your prospect as the hero, who do you become?

So the guide, well, yeah, the guide, the saves. Luke's, Luke, the Skywalker, right? Is the hero of the story. No doubt. And then he goes and meets Yoda and he's not listening. [00:05:00] So Yoda says, pick up your lightsaber. Luke can come at me. Luke goes, I'll hurt you master. He goes, no, you won't just have a go. And, Luke comes at him.

I'm not a star Wars super fan, but I remember the scene and he goes, and Yoda disarms him. Oh, that's interesting. So Luke gets a little bit cranky. He has another go. And Yo Yoda disarm. Now he's angry and he's really going at it. Yo Yoda shuts his eyes and, and you know, Luke could have been killed kind of thing.

And he goes, I don't understand. And Yoda just goes, it's the force, Luke, simplified message. It's the force, right? When you make the client the hero, and we don't talk about the ideal avatar in our world. We talk about the hero client. When you make the client the hero, you become the sage and everybody wants the sage.

And a sage has three things. A sage has profound genius. And that means they can simplify the most complex things. And they don't sell from ego, they sell from wisdom. And so profound genius, right? The sage has powerful, calm, they don't create pressure, they actually calm things down, powerful, [00:06:00] calm. Think about the concept of that.

If you can show up in a way that just creates powerful, calm, and then the sage has practical simplicity. So in our world, we turn complex things into visual models. So it creates a practical and simple way of understanding this profound wisdom that they're actually sharing. So be the sage. Make your clients the hero.

while you are trying to be the hero to your client, they have to be the victim, and it makes them the worst kind of clients. So stop making them the victim, exit the hero space and let them become the hero, and you be the sage. Now, interestingly. So this is all on the front end. Interestingly, if we think about this, when you just sell products and services, you're at the bottom of the, of the pyramid and you're in a price-based market.

If you, you know, the hero would be here, and if you're the hero to the client, you know you're offering strength, that's a good thing. But if you vacate, but that makes the client the victim, if you vacate the hero space, they can become the hero and you become the sage at [00:07:00] the top. The next thing I'm about to share is going to upset a lot of people, right?

When you vacate the hero space and become the sage, the client can become the hero. This space in the middle is absolutely no man's land. It's the world of free information. It's entirely commoditized. And this level is called thought leadership. No one should ever call themselves a thought leader because true thought leaders never do call themselves thought leader.

Right? And to be a thought leader, you need two things. You need original thinking, you need followers. If you've got original thinking, but no followers, you're just a great thinker, but you're not influencing anybody if you've got a bunch of followers, but you, it's not original thinking. You're a great teacher and influencer, but you're not a thought leader.

Ronsley Vaz: Yeah,

Simon Bowen: right. And so thought leadership has turned into, Hey, would I'd love to have a coffee and pick your brains? Could you share that free info with And it's a completely commoditized space. It's actually below. It's better off to be the hero for the client and do a done for you solution than trying to be a thought leader doing a done with you solution.

Right. Because people [00:08:00] will pay for strength. But if you can vacate that space and, become the sage and let the client be the hero, you can still do some done for you, but you have to bring this profound genius, powerful, calm, and practical simplicity to the table so they know without any shadow of a doubt they're experiencing something rare and unique in the way you show into the market.

Then outsell is being able to explain value rapidly, visually, structurally, give them access to the value, and the sale is the first step in serving out serve the marketplace. There's some really interesting data that says 53% of customer loyalty is formed in the purchasing process, so over half the customer's loyalty is formed as they buy from you.

So the way you sell is one of the most powerful predictors of the level of customer loyalty. So if you don't sell well, you'll have buyer's remorse. But if you do sell well, you'll have [00:09:00] buyer safety. Yeah. And you'll have a high level of customer loyalty. Now it's yours to lose rather than build.

And so when we use false scarcity and urgency in old pressure based sales techniques, you'll create buyer's remorse. You're not gonna create loyalty. So how you sell is basically is code for how you communicate.

Ronsley Vaz: Yeah. Is

Simon Bowen: the biggest predictor of customer loyalty and you know, but just commoditizing so rapidly.

Now, interestingly, if I draw a black line across here, and we call that the AI line. Well, AI has consumed product, AI has consumed thought leadership already, and it's probably about halfway through the hero level. Yes, it's gonna struggle a lot more with the top of the pyramid. It might, but I reckon it's about there right now.

So if you are living in this world, kind of watch out,

Ronsley Vaz: you know? Mm-hmm. Oh, Simon, every time I ask you a question, I think I have got more questions to ask and I don't even know there's enough time to sort of cover, so I'm gonna ask this question and I'd love to land the plane at the same time Sure.

Because off [00:10:00] time. But, you know, I, I feel like I can have this conversation with you and we've had these conversations that have gone on like for hours. But I feel like, you know, communication, leadership. Decision making, they're kind of all, you know, in this. Yeah. Like you talk about those CS up the top.

Right. AndI talk about courage, collaboration, and connection. Yeah. Yeah. As the human traits. Yeah. Yeah. And I feel like what AI has done, especially to these founders who are very delivery focused and, you know, don't, I mean not really good at attract and convert, is AI allows them to be courageous.

They all the excuses that they had before kind of go out the window and they can exercise their human focus of courage. or trait of courage rather than worrying about content or these other things that, you know, don't sort of, you know, are being commoditized [00:11:00] now. ladies and gentlemen, by the way, the simon [bowen.com](http://bowen.com/) is where you go to find all the cool stuff that Simon's up to, including his podcast and you know where to find more about him.

The simon [bowen.com](http://bowen.com/), all that will be in the show notes. And the links will be there and all his work will be there. I'm a huge fan of Simon, so I consume a lot of his work. I highly suggest you do the same. But Simon, when your thinking about this and you're kind of going, if you had to give advice to these people based on all your knowledge, how would you recommend us start to look at as at business differently when these new factors have come into play?

Like AI and the tech line that you spoke about?

Simon Bowen: Yeah, so I believe business is one of the most powerful forces for good on the planet in the hand of the right leaders. And you talked about leadership and courage. I'd love to land it in this space, right? If business is one of the most powerful forces for good on the planet, selling as the start of the service process, [00:12:00] selling as the start of serving should be the most noble thing any business does.

Selling should be the most noble thing any business does, and what business is really doing for people is addressing this interesting space through here, which I'll come back to in a minute and I'm gonna land this. In terms of leadership, all progress

lives on the far side of chaos. And so when you sell a product or service to a custom, you are trying to help them make progress. They can't make that progress 'cause they're stuck inside their status quo and their status quo is, I understand exactly what the patterns are inside my world, but those patterns are not delivering this result that I want.

And so I can't get to the result. I can't make progress 'cause I'm stuck inside my status quo, which is, you know, other language for comfort zone. And I don't want to go outside my comfort zone. But to get outside my comfort zone, I've gotta go through chaos now. Chaos. It looks like it doesn't have patterns, but it actually does.

You [00:13:00] know, I started studying what's the most random thing I could think of 'cause I want to observe the patterns. Primarily. I'm a pattern finder and I thought luck, you know, let's see if luck has patterns. Turns out it does. And to prove it, you know, we started entering competitions and sweepstakes, you know, win a car, win a trip, stuff like that.

And television in Australia. Put my wife on TV regularly. They call her Australia's competition queen. We've won well over a million dollars worth of prizes, trips, and two family trips to Disney World in Florida. Two family trips to London, trips into state, walking over the top of the Sydney Harbor Bridge cars.

At one point, one of the current affairs shows said, can you put everything you've won in one room? We wanna, the journalists are gonna come out and interview and we walked around the house and just about everything we had like the TVs my daughters. One, all of their game consoles and push bikes.

And our middle daughter said, my bike's too small. We said, win another one. So she did. We win with volition and if we teach people what to do, 'cause there are patterns to this, if we teach people what to do, they'll often win a trip within about three [00:14:00] months. There's absolutely patterns to this stuff. Luck is not random.

there's a degree of randomness, but it's far from as random as people think. Right? There's even patterns in the lottery. I, I downloaded 20 years of lottery winnings in an Excel file from the Lottery's website and got a biomedical statistician friend of mine to find the patents. He said, absolutely, but you won't win if you use the same numbers every week.

You've gotta use different numbers because of the way the patterns run. And so people look at chaos and go, there's no patterns there, but there absolutely are. It's just that they, can see the chunks, but they can't see the connections. What makes a pattern is actually the connections, not the pieces.

And so people kind of, people go into chaos. They go, oh, it feels bad. And they zip back into comfort zone and they move into chaos a little bit and they zip back into comfort zone. It's called spinning on the edge of, the comfort zone, right? But out here is progress. This is what they want, but I feel really comfortable in here.

And so someone's gotta shove them into the [00:15:00] comfort zone. So they stumble far enough to get into the progress zone and realize, oh, this is better. This line is the innovation line. Innovation isn't coming up with the idea. Innovation is applying the idea create, coming up with the idea innovation's, applying the idea.

So what is this line? This is the critical line. This is where leaders live. The job of a leader is to lead people into chaos safely. That's the job. A leader. Leader, if you are a sales person who's trying to be a leader, lead your customer into chaos safely. And there is a direct correlation between the courage of the leader and the comfort of the follower to follow them into chaos.

And so a leader who displays real courage will have more people following 'em into chaos than the leader that does not. And so leaders understand that leaders are not interested in trying to blame the cause of the chaos. They actually just wanna address the [00:16:00] chaos. And so you think about the founders that you are talking about what they've done, like what does it mean to be a founder of a business?

It means you found the patterns in what other people see as chaos. That's all it means. You found the connections inside the chaos that gave you a pattern that allowed you to come up with a compelling and self-evident solution that you could take to the marketplace. And then you wonder why no one else gets it when you're trying to explain it.

Because when you just use words, they're going, well, that sounds chaotic. and you are, relying on them to trust your courage to walk into chaos. Right now, the moment you step back and while you are the primary salesperson, you can get away with it. But when you step back, your company grows.

Now you've got a sales team. They don't have the leadership courage, and they're actually still trying to figure out the chaos. And so they don't sell as well. Capture in a model, put the courage into a model and get the model to make sense of chaos and then let your salespeople sell through the model.

And now you can scale the business. [00:17:00] Spending money on fulfillment is over capitalization. If you haven't spent money on scaling the selling. The only way you can scale a business is scale the selling. And so you've gotta be able to have multiple generations of sales team sell like the founder and

The founder is the best salesperson only for two reasons. They intuitively understand the chaos and they have the right to cut whatever deal they want. If you give every salesperson the right to cut whatever deal they want, they'd all sell like crazy, right? But they don't have that, right? So you gotta capture the founder's courage and understanding of the chaos into a framework that you give other people to sell with.

But we live in a world now where it feels to people more like chaos than ever before. And you know, we need real leadership courage because. All progress lives on the far side of chaos. we don't have new chaos in the world. We just have chaos. We do, we've always had chaos. Entro. Chaos. Entropy

Ronsley Vaz: is, entropy has been existing since the beginning of time, right?

Yeah. Yeah. It's the thing that makes, everything [00:18:00] work. Ladies and gentlemen, the simon [bowen.com](http://bowen.com/) is where you gotta find everything that Simon does. All those links will be in the show notes. Simon, this has been a little slice of heaven. Thank you so much. I wonder, and I was gonna ask this off air, but I think I'm gonna ask it on air, sounds like it's leading to something.

Maybe we could do a regular monthly segment where you come on the show and we have this conversation around communication, courage, ai, if your time and your calendar allows it. But it's something that I thought about that I think that if I was to have a regular on the show, it would be Simon Bowen.

So something to think about. And you know, I really, really hope we see each other. I think Austin is probably the next place that we might get to bump into each other, but thank you so much for this. Thank you for all your wisdom. Thank you for actually helping me see that there is a, version of a founder that is so.

Much in their genius. and I love that. I, I [00:19:00] like to see that in you so that I can model that off you. So thank you so much. Love to Joanne. Pleasure. This was great.

Simon Bowen: it's a pleasure. I'm sure we can find a rhythm for real conversations. You are one of the, small group of people who I can't as friends who also usually live in Australia, but we only ever see each other overseas.

Ronsley Vaz: That's,

Simon Bowen: that's the world we're all living in right now. So thank you for having me on the show. And you know,I think we, live in a world now where we need to be willing to challenge people to, like we use the term founder, but we should be using the term leader.

Ronsley Vaz: You know,

Simon Bowen: you've brought something compelling and self evident to the world.

Now you need to display the courage and codify the genius and help people understand it. 'cause all progress is on the far side of chaos.

Ronsley Vaz: Love it. Thank you Simon.

Simon Bowen: It's a pleasure.